Okay. So the first thing that we want to do is to find out what UTXOs do we have in
our wallet so we can use an available UTXO as an input to create an output transaction.
Remember, Bitcoin transaction inputs come from the output of a previous transaction.
During the transaction, these funds are transferred from one address to another address.
Now let's go to a deeper console.
For that you're going to go to Help,
Debug window and Debug console.
So I'm going to show you,
let me make the screen a little bit bigger here.
So I'll do this command again and the way you check what all UTXOs was irreadable,
you will type the command 'listunspent'.
When you type a command,
listunspent, you will see an array.
Now, these can be used as inputs in other transactions.
As you see the result is a list of unspent outputs.
It is an array of objects each describing an unspent output.
It can be empty if you don't have any unspent outputs in your wallet.
Let me quickly walk you through all these fields.
So we'll start with this one here the txid.
Let's just pick one example here.
So it's an array of all UTXOs available.
So if you see the txid,
which is a transaction ID for this transaction.
The vout is the output index of the output within this transaction.
So it could be zero or one in some cases,
depends upon how many outputs or UTXOs were created in this transaction.
So if a transaction created two outputs,
then we're going to have an array with zero and one.
Address, this is the address to which the output is paid.
Label; in case you gave a label to the transaction, it's going to show up here.
Redeemscript, a script that is similar in function like the PubKey script.
One copy if it is hashed to create
the PubKey script and the other copies placed on the signature script.
Of course it's a little bit complicated but you really do not need this for now.
It's not that information important.
But again if you want to, you can always look it up for more information.
Then we have the scriptPubKey.
This is the hash of the locking script that we talked about in
the previous lessons and it's also called the PubKey script.
Then we have the amount.
This is the amount that is paid to the address in Bitcoins.
Conformations, the number of
confirmations that have been received for this transaction so far.
Spendable, now this is set to true if
the private key or the keys needed to spend this output are part of the wallet.
So in my case it's true.
Then we have another flag that says solvable.
This is set to true if the wallet knows how to spend this output.
It is set to false if the wallet does not know how to spend the output.
It is ignored if the private keys are available.
So now we know what UTXOs are available.
In the next step I'm going to show you how we can actually
use one of these UTXOs and create a rod transaction